Docsp 45182 ruby databases collection 2 (#117)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/databases-collection.txt

-------------------

Access a collection by using the ``[]`` method on an instance 
of your database.

The following example accesses a collection named ``test_collection``:

.. literalinclude:: /read/databases-collection.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :emphasize-lines: 2
   :start-after: start-access-db
   :end-before: end-access-db

.. tip::

   If the provided collection name does not already exist in the database,
   MongoDB implicitly creates the collection when you first insert data
   into it.

Create a Collection
-------------------

While the Ruby driver for MongoDB does not have a direct ``create_collection`` 
method, you can use the ``database.command`` method with the create command to 
create a collection with specific options.

The following example creates a collection called example_collection with 
specific options:

.. literalinclude:: /read/databases-collection.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :emphasize-lines: 2
   :start-after: start-create-collection
   :end-before: end-create-collection

You can specify collection options such as maximum size, document validation 
rules, and others by passing them as arguments to the command method with the 

> create command. For a full list of optional parameters, refer to the MongoDB 
> documentation on creating collections.

Reviewer: I couldn't find the documentation specifically about creating collections, only the create command, which I think you should reference here:

```suggestion
create command. For a full list of optional parameters, refer to the MongoDB 
documentation on the :manual:`create command/reference/command/create/`.
```

Double check that link, it should link here: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/command/create/

Author: link did not work for me, I just put in a regular reference link

Get a List of Collections
-------------------------

You can query for a list of collections in a database by calling the ``collections``
method. This method returns an array of collection objects in the database.

The following example calls the ``collections`` method and iterates over the array
to print the results:

.. literalinclude:: /read/databases-collection.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-get-list
   :end-before: end-get-list

To query for only the names of the collections in the database, call the 
``collection_names`` method as follows:

.. literalinclude:: /read/databases-collection.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-get-list-names
   :end-before: end-get-list-names

> Note that ``database.collections`` provides more detailed information (e.g., each
> collection object can be further queried for metadata), while 
> ``database.collection_names`` simply lists the collection names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: 

    The ``database.collections`` objects list provides more detailed information (i.e. each
    collection object can be further queried for metadata), while 
    ``database.collection_names`` simply lists the collection names.
```

   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-with-collection
   :end-before: end-with-collection

To learn more about the read and write settings, see the following guides in the
MongoDB Server manual:

- :manual:`Read Preference </core/read-preference/>`
- :manual:`Read Concern </reference/read-concern/>`
- :manual:`Write Concern </reference/write-concern/>`

Tag Sets
~~~~~~~~

In {+mdb-server+}, you can apply key-value :manual:`tags
</core/read-preference-tags/>` to replica-set
members according to any criteria you choose. You can then use
those tags to target one or more members for a read operation.

By default, the MongoDB {+driver-short+} selects primary members for read operations.
You can modify this behavior by setting read preferences and, optionally, tag sets.

In the following code example, the tag set passed to the ``:read`` parameter
instructs the {+driver-short+} to prefer reads from the New York data center 
(``'dc':'ny'``) and to fall back to the San Francisco data center (``'dc':'sf'``):

.. literalinclude:: /read/databases-collection.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-tag-sets
   :end-before: end-tag-sets

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about replica sets, see the the MongoDB Server manual :manual:`Replica Set Members </core/replica-set-members/>` page.
```

Local Threshold
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If multiple replica-set members match the read preference and tag sets you specify,
> {+driver-short+} reads from the nearest replica-set members, chosen according to
> their ping time.

Reviewer: I don't think we use the hyphen on any other pages:

```suggestion
If multiple replica set members match the read preference and tag sets you specify,
{+driver-short+} reads from the nearest replica set member, chosen according to
their ping time.
```

:manual:`Documents </core/document/>` guide in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

.. TODO: Add a diagram here

Access a Database
-----------------

Access a database by creating a ``Mongo::Client`` instance with the desired 
database name.

The following example accesses a database named ``test_database``:

.. literalinclude:: /read/databases-collection.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :start-after: start-access-db
   :end-before: end-access-db

Access a Collection
-------------------

Access a collection by using the ``[]`` method on an instance 
of your database.

The following example accesses a collection named ``test_collection``:

.. literalinclude:: /read/databases-collection.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :emphasize-lines: 2
   :start-after: start-access-cl
   :end-before: end-access-cl

.. tip::

   If the provided collection name does not already exist in the database,
   MongoDB implicitly creates the collection when you first insert data
   into it.

Create a Collection
-------------------

While the Ruby driver for MongoDB does not have a direct ``create_collection`` 
method, you can use the ``database.command`` method with the create command to 

> create a collection with specific options.

Reviewer 2: There actually _is_ a method for creating collections. You call `create` on the collection returned by the `#[]` method, e.g.

```ruby
client = Mongo::Client.new(['127.0.0.1:27017'], database: 'test_database')
database = client.database

database[:example_collection].create(capped: true, size: 1024)
```

Relevant API docs are here: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/ruby-driver/current/api/Mongo/Collection.html#create-instance_method

The following example creates a collection called example_collection with 
specific options:

.. literalinclude:: /read/databases-collection.rb
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :emphasize-lines: 2
   :start-after: start-create-collection
   :end-before: end-create-collection

You can specify collection options such as maximum size, document validation 
rules, and others by passing them as arguments to the command method with the 
create command. For a full list of optional parameters, refer to the MongoDB 

> documentation on the `create command <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/command/create/>`.

Reviewer: I think we both got the formatting wrong (the link in the preview is broken), I think this is correct:

```suggestion
documentation on the :manual:`create command </reference/command/create/>`.
```
